# FYP_

Climate change is one of the most prominent issues of the 21st century; rising sea-levels, temperatures and pollution are the concerns of humans worldwide. Contaminated water is a hazard for the entire biosphere, affecting both fauna and flora. This research describes and develops techniques for the anal- ysis, monitoring and forecasting of water quality in the Bristol Harbour. An initial high level analysis provides an understanding of how different naturally occurring phenomena affect water quality. Both maximum tidal range and rainfall demonstrate moderate correlations with conductivity and turbidity values collected from sensors in the harbour. The second stage of this project is to use hyperspectral image data to model and predict the water quality of a body of water. Given the lack of water spe- cific hyperspectral image data, let alone standard hyperspectral image data, data is acquired in both a controlled laboratory environment and an outdoor setting, on the docks of the harbour. Before using the hyperspectral image data, lab sensor data is used to draw a relationship between turbidity and total dissolved solids. When analysing the hyperspectral image data, significant heteroscedastic noise appears as recurrent issue. Research is reoriented towards understanding which factors most influence noise and how these unstable variations can be modelled. Relevant noise reduction methods are subsequently tested and evaluated. To predict the water quality two regression models are built using machine learning tech- niques. An absorption-based regression algorithm is designed using the spectral code of a water sample. These spectral codes are based on the principal absorption lines of the spectrum extracted from a hy- perspectral image. Comparing spectral codes from different images the algorithm decides whether they are from the same body of water. To predict the spectrum of a water quality at any given turbidity, a Gaussian process regression (GPR) model is built. Given lack in data, the GPR is constructed to predict only one turbidity spectrum of the data acquired on the docks of the Bristol Harbour. A comparison of kernel functions determines that the Matérn covariance kernel performed the best on the given data.
In all, this study demonstrates an analysis, modelling and evaluation of hyperspectral image data to monitor and forecast water quality. In future studies the mentioned methods and techniques may be useful for remote water quality sensing using satellites or drones.
